# AMATH-881-Final-Project
This is a proof of concept code. This was not included in the final project but still something I worked on. This hopefully will be something I continue developing. 

This repo has three compenents: 
    1. pydstool
    2. tumor_analysis
    3. scripts

### pydstool
pydstool contains the scripts for the package pyDStool https://pydstool.github.io/PyDSTool/FrontPage.html which can be run using the docker.pydstool environment, that folder also contains an extension under pydstool/models which has a wrapper to all scripts not starting with an underscore under the models folder and outputs any graphs to the output folder, assumption is one graph per file and create a .png with the same file name as the script. The intention was to create scripts under the models for several ODE systems. 

The dockerized enviornment is neccesary to run pyDStool due to specific numpy, scipy and matplotlib dependencies. 

### tumor_anlaysis 
this is a CLI that webscrap synapse data and create parameter estimation for an ODE. This would need a .env file that contains personal synapse token for this to run. Also has a docker and a readme.md with full instructions. that readme.md is vibe generated. 

ODE paramter estimations is generated by a simple rna sequence anlaysis for markers defined in markers.py and then computing the average of the values in the rows in the data. 

### scripts
useful code that was not built into a specific pipeline but would be nice to join into the other components in the future. 
_init_cond.py was built around guessing the intial conditions to run the bifurcation continuations in pycont (sub module of pyDStool) for a specific ODE model. this was built to overcome not know initial conditions to be close enough to a steady state for the continutation algorithim to work. 

latex_table_for_parma.py uses pandas to convert parameters defined in a dictonary (need for pyDStool) to a dataframe as use a built panda function to print out latex script for a table. 

both script ran on my native setup of python 3.11.9 and would work with any version currently as of april 13 2026. 
